README.md, before:

# crowsnest

**TODO** - elevator pitch and logo

## Overview

`crowsnest` is a microservice-based application with the main focus of being a reasearch platform for maritime operations.

As a shore center, `crowsnest` will (eventually) allow:
* A VTS-like UI
* Remote sensing from test objects
* Recording and replaying of test scenarios
* Data fusion with sensor data from multiple test objects
* Remote control of test objects


As an onboard platform, `crowsnest` will (eventually) allow:
* A ECDIS-like UI
* Centralized and extensible sensor data platform
* Recording and replaying of scenarios
* Remote sensing using sensor inputs from other test objects
* Injection of control signals into the test object´s control system

 To accomplish this, `crowsnest` has core focus on the following activitites:
* Real-time sensor data streaming
* Data logging
* Extensibility using data connectors
* Bridging of instances
* Modular frontend
* Simplistic developer experience

It leverages [brefv](https://github.com/MO-RISE/brefv) as the data message format to ensure interoperability and readability.

**TODO** - diagrams


## Get started

This repository is the main repository of `crowsnest`. It contains examples of docker-compose setups:
* `docker-compose.base.yml` - defines the base services needed for getting up and running
* `docker-compose.auth.yml` - defines the additional config required to get authentication/authorization going

The compose files build on each other according to the principles outlined [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/#multiple-compose-files). As such, the following `docker-compose` commands are all valid:
* `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml up`
* `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.auth.yml up`

The `.env` file included in this repository serve as an example of what parameters that can be changed in a `crowsnest` setup. It should **not** be used as-is in a production setup!

Commit message:

Updating readme with minimal info about the messaging solution

README.md, after:

# crowsnest

**TODO** - elevator pitch and logo

## Overview

`crowsnest` is a microservice-based application with the main focus of being a reasearch platform for maritime operations.

As a shore center, `crowsnest` will (eventually) allow:
* A VTS-like UI
* Remote sensing from test objects
* Recording and replaying of test scenarios
* Data fusion with sensor data from multiple test objects
* Remote control of test objects


As an onboard platform, `crowsnest` will (eventually) allow:
* A ECDIS-like UI
* Centralized and extensible sensor data platform
* Recording and replaying of scenarios
* Remote sensing using sensor inputs from other test objects
* Injection of control signals into the test object´s control system

 To accomplish this, `crowsnest` has core focus on the following activitites:
* Real-time sensor data streaming
* Data logging
* Extensibility using data connectors
* Bridging of instances
* Modular frontend
* Simplistic developer experience

## Messaging solution
`crowsnest` leverages [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) as its main messaging protocol, more specifically it tries to make use of MQTT v5.0 as much as possible to take advantage of the latest developments.

### Message format
`crowsnest` leverages [brefv](https://github.com/MO-RISE/brefv) as the data message format to ensure interoperability and readability.

### Topic structure
All microservices operating within a `crowsnest` ecosystem should adhere to the following topic structure:
```console
/<parent_type>/<parent_id>/<child_type>/<child_subtype>/<child_id>
```
As an example, a microservice interacting with a LIDAR sensor onboard the ship would publish its observations on the followig topic:
```console
/ship/<some_unique_id_for_this_ship>/observations/lidar/0
```
the `0` (zero) at the end signals that this is the first (of potentially several) lidar observers onboard this ship.

## Architecture
**TODO** - diagrams


## Get started

This repository is the main repository of `crowsnest`. It contains examples of docker-compose setups:
* `docker-compose.base.yml` - defines the base services needed for getting up and running
* `docker-compose.auth.yml` - defines the additional config required to get authentication/authorization going

The compose files build on each other according to the principles outlined [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/#multiple-compose-files). As such, the following `docker-compose` commands are all valid:
* `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml up`
* `docker-compose -f docker-compose.base.yml -f docker-compose.auth.yml up`

The `.env` file included in this repository serve as an example of what parameters that can be changed in a `crowsnest` setup. It should **not** be used as-is in a production setup!
